Docs 6728 monitoring api analytics enhanced dashboard spec (#99)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/api-analytics-dashboard.adoc

= API Analytics Dashboards

The API analytics dashboards provide charts to monitor API usage, which gives you insight into how your APIs are used and how they are performing.

> There are two views for API analytics dashboard: new metrics and classic metrics.

Reviewer: something like "...dashboard includes two views:"?

Author: ```suggestion
The API analytics dashboard includes two views: new metrics and classic metrics.
```

The new metrics view includes detailed information about your APIs, and charts are sorted into dashboards based on the type of data displayed.
The classic metrics view is deprecated as of January 15, 2020, and it displays information related only to response times and requests for APIs.

> To get the most out of Anypoint Monitoring, you should use the new metrics view to see information related to your APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the most out of Anypoint Monitoring, use the new metrics view to see information related to your APIs.
```

By default, the new metrics view is selected. To switch views, select *Switch to classic metrics*. From the classic metrics view, select *Show new metrics view*.

[NOTE]

> For Gold and Platinum subscriptions to Anypoint Monitoring, API analytics data are retained for 90 days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Gold and Platinum subscriptions, Anypoint Monitoring retains API analytics data for 90 days.
```

= API Analytics Dashboards

The API analytics dashboards provide charts to monitor API usage, which gives you insight into how your APIs are used and how they are performing.

The API analytics dashboard includes two views: new metrics and classic metrics.
The new metrics view includes detailed information about your APIs, and charts are sorted into dashboards based on the type of data displayed. Currently, new metrics are available if you are using Mule Runtime version 3.9.3, 3.94, or 4.2.2.
To get the most out of Anypoint Monitoring, use the new metrics view to see information related to your APIs.

By default, the new metrics view is selected. To switch views, select *Switch to classic metrics*. From the classic metrics view, select *Show new metrics view*.

[NOTE]

> For Gold and Platinum subscriptions, Anypoint Monitoring retains API analytics data for 90 days.

Author: Should this be changed per Pablo's suggestion?

Author: @pgaliana

= API Analytics Dashboards

The API analytics dashboards provide charts to monitor API usage, which gives you insight into how your APIs are used and how they are performing.

The API analytics dashboard includes two views: new metrics and classic metrics.

> The new metrics view includes detailed information about your APIs, and charts are sorted into dashboards based on the type of data displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
The new metrics view includes detailed information about your APIs, and charts are sorted into dashboards based on the type of data displayed. Currently, new metrics are available if you are using Mule Runtime version 3.9.3, 3.94, or 4.2.2.
```

> The classic metrics view is deprecated as of January 15, 2020, and it displays information related only to response times and requests for APIs.

Author: ```suggestion
```

* Requests by Request Size
* Requests by Response Size

| <<performance-charts>> a|

* Requests by Performance (line chart)
* Requests by Performance (table)
* Slow Requests (requires Titanium)

| <<client-applications-charts>> a|

* Requests by Client ID
* Requests by Client IP

|===

[[overview-charts]]
=== Overview Charts

The following charts appear on the *Overview* dashboard:

Request Volume:: The sum of requests in the selected time period for the given API.

Failed Requests:: The sum of failed requests in the selected time period for the given API.

Policy Violations:: The sum of requests for policy violations in the selected time period, grouped by policy violation ID.

Average Response Time:: The average response time of requests in the selected time period for the given API.

[[requests-charts]]
=== Requests Charts

The following charts appear on the *Requests* dashboard:

Requests:: The sum of requests in the selected time period, grouped by the top 100 paths.

Requests by Method:: The sum of requests in the selected time period, grouped by method.

Requests by Response Code:: The sum of requests in the selected time period, grouped by response code.

> Requests by Request Size:: The sum of requests in the selected time period, grouped by request size.+

Author: ```suggestion
Requests by Request Size:: The sum of requests in the selected time period, grouped by request size.
```

> Requests by Response Size:: The sum of requests in the selected time period, grouped by response size.+

Author: ```suggestion
Requests by Response Size:: The sum of requests in the selected time period, grouped by response size.
```

[[policies-charts]]
=== Policies Charts

The following charts appear on the *Policies* dashboard:

Requests:: The sum of requests of policy violations in the selected time period, grouped by top 100 paths.

Policy Violations by Outcome:: The sum of requests of policy violations in the selected time period, grouped by outcome.

Policy Violations by Violation ID:: The sum of requests of policy violations in the selected time period, grouped by policy violation ID.

[[failures-charts]]
=== Failures Charts

The following charts appear on the *Failures* dashboard:

Failures:: The sum of failed requests in the selected time period, grouped by the top 100 paths.

Failures by Method:: The sum of failed requests in the selected time period, grouped by method.

Requests by Response Code:: The sum of failed requests in the selected time period, grouped by response code.

Requests by Request Size:: The sum of failed requests in the selected time period, grouped by request size.

> Requests by Response Size:: The sum of failed requests in the selected time period, grouped by response size

Author: ```suggestion
Requests by Response Size:: The sum of failed requests in the selected time period, grouped by response size.
```

[[performance-charts]]
=== Performance Charts

> The following charts appear on the *Performance*:

Author: ```suggestion
The following charts appear on the *Performance* dashboard:
```

Requests by Performance (line chart):: The average request response times, grouped by path.

Requests by Performance (table):: The average request response times, grouped by path.

Slow Requests:: The average response times that are greater than one second, grouped by path. This chart is available only for Titanium users.

[[client-applications-charts]]
=== Client Applications Charts

The following charts appear on the *Client Applications* dashboards:

Requests by Client ID:: The sum of requests in the period, grouped by client ID.

Requests by Client IP:: The sum of requests in the period, grouped by client IP address.

== Classic Metrics View (Deprecated)

> The classic metrics view is deprecated as of January 15, 2020.

Author: ```suggestion
```

= API Analytics Dashboards

The API analytics dashboards provide charts to monitor API usage, which gives you insight into how your APIs are used and how they are performing.

> The API analytics dashboard includes two views: new metrics and classic metrics.

Author: ```suggestion
The API analytics dashboard includes two views: enhanced metrics and basic metrics.
```

> The new metrics view includes detailed information about your APIs, and charts are sorted into dashboards based on the type of data displayed. Currently, new metrics are available if you are using Mule Runtime version 3.9.3, 3.94, or 4.2.2.

Reviewer 2: 3.9.3, 3.9.4, 4.2.1, or 4.2.2.

Author: ```suggestion
The new metrics view includes detailed information about your APIs, and charts are sorted into dashboards based on the type of data displayed. Currently, new metrics are available if you are using Mule Runtime version 3.9.3, 3.94, 4.2.1, or 4.2.2.
```

> The new metrics view includes detailed information about your APIs, and charts are sorted into dashboards based on the type of data displayed. Currently, new metrics are available if you are using Mule Runtime version 3.9.3, 3.94, or 4.2.2.

Author: ```suggestion
The enhanced metrics view includes detailed information about your APIs, and charts are sorted into dashboards based on the type of data displayed. Currently, new metrics are available if you are using Mule Runtime version 3.9.3, 3.94, or 4.2.2.
```

> The enhanced metrics view includes detailed information about your APIs, and charts are sorted into dashboards based on the type of data displayed. Currently, enhanced metrics are available if you are using Mule Runtime version 3.9.3, 3.94, 4.2.1, or 4.2.2.

Reviewer 2: 3.9.4 rather than 3.94

Author: ```suggestion
The enhanced metrics view includes detailed information about your APIs, and charts are sorted into dashboards based on the type of data displayed. Currently, enhanced metrics are available if you are using Mule Runtime version 3.9.3, 3.9.4, 4.2.1, or 4.2.2.
```

> The enhanced metrics view includes detailed information about your APIs, and charts are sorted into dashboards based on the type of data displayed. Currently, enhanced metrics are available if you are using Mule Runtime version 3.9.3, 3.9.4, 4.2.1, or 4.2.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The enhanced metrics view includes detailed information about your APIs, and charts are sorted into dashboards based on the type of data displayed. Currently, enhanced metrics are available if you are using Mule runtime engine version 3.9.3, 3.9.4, 4.2.1, or 4.2.2.
```

> To get the most out of Anypoint Monitoring, use the new metrics view to see information related to your APIs.

Author: ```suggestion
To get the most out of Anypoint Monitoring, use the enhanced metrics view to see information related to your APIs.
```

> By default, the new metrics view is selected. To switch views, select *Switch to classic metrics*. From the classic metrics view, select *Show new metrics view*.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, the enhanced metrics view is selected. To switch views, select *Switch to classic metrics*. From the classic metrics view, select *Show new metrics view*.
```

[NOTE]
For Gold and Platinum subscriptions, Anypoint Monitoring retains API analytics data for 90 days.

== View the API Analytics Dashboard

. Sign into Anypoint Platform and navigate to *Anypoint Monitoring*.

> . Select the Environment, Resource name, and Version/Instance for the API to view.

Reviewer: Either bold or lowercase (for generic).

. Click *View*. +
On the API analytics page, you can view information about a running, managed API. +
+
+
. Select the date and time range you want to view statistics for and click *Confirm*. +
The details panel at the top of the page displays information about the API.
+
image::api-analytics-detail-panel.png[]
+
. If you want to view API analytics in API Manager, click the *View API in API Manager* link.

> == New Metrics View for API Analytics Dashboards

Author: ```suggestion
== Enhanced Metrics View for API Analytics Dashboards
```

* If you select a time range that is larger than one day, data is aggregated in one hour increments.

Slow Requests:: The average response times that are greater than one second, grouped by path. This chart is available only for Titanium users.
+
* If you select a time range within the last hour, data is aggregated in one minute increments.
* If you select a time range within the last day, data is aggregated in ten minute increments.
* If you select a time range that is larger than one day, data is aggregated in one hour increments.

[[client-applications-charts]]
=== Client Applications Charts

The following charts appear on the *Client Applications* dashboards:

Requests by Client ID:: The sum of requests in the period, grouped by client ID. Data is aggregated in one minute increments.

Requests by Client IP:: The sum of requests in the period, grouped by client IP address.
+
* If you select a time range within the last hour, data is aggregated in one minute increments.
* If you select a time range within the last day, data is aggregated in ten minute increments.
* If you select a time range that is larger than one day, data is aggregated in one hour increments.

> == Classic Metrics View (Deprecated)

Author: ```suggestion
== Classic Metrics View
```

Author: ```suggestion
== Basic Metrics View
```

. Sign into Anypoint Platform and navigate to *Anypoint Monitoring*.
. Select the Environment, Resource name, and Version/Instance for the API to view.
. Click *View*. +

> The API analytics page is displayed, where you can view information about a running, managed API. +

Reviewer: Can you make it active?

Reviewer: The screenshot guidelines say you need a caption. I think.

Author: ```suggestion
On the API analytics page, you can view information about a running, managed API. +
```

> image::monitoring-api-analytics-top.png[]

Reviewer: For all screenshots, add a caption (line above starting with a dot and no space). Alt text goes inside the [].

Author: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removing these since there are two views, and they do not help the reader.

+

> image::monitoring-api-analytics-bottom.png[]

Author: ```suggestion
```

+

> You can click the *View API in API Manager* link to view API analytics in API Manager.

Reviewer: Kim might say this is an optional step.
. If you want to..., click ...

> You can click the *View API in API Manager* link to view API analytics in API Manager.

Author: ```suggestion
. If you want to view API analytics in API Manager, click the *View API in API Manager* link.
```

== New Metrics View for API Analytics Dashboards

API analytics dashboards include various pages to view different types of charts:

[%header,cols="1,4"]
|===
| API Analytics Dashboards | Charts

| <<overview-charts>> a|

* Request Volume
* Failed Requests
* Policy Violations
* Average Response Time

| <<requests-charts>> a|

* Requests
* Requests by Method
* Requests by Response Code
* Requests by Request Size
* Requests by Response Size

| <<policies-charts>> a|

* Requests
* Policy Violations by Outcome
* Policy Violations by Violation ID

| <<failures-charts>> a|

* Failures
* Failures by Method
* Requests by Response Code
* Requests by Request Size
* Requests by Response Size

| <<performance-charts>> a|

* Requests by Performance (line chart)
* Requests by Performance (table)
* Slow Requests (requires Titanium)

| <<client-applications-charts>> a|

* Requests by Client ID
* Requests by Client IP

|===

[[overview-charts]]
=== Overview Charts

The charts on the *Overview* dashboard are defined as follows:

Request Volume:: The sum of requests in the chosen time period for the given API.

> Failed Requests:: The sum of failed requests in the chosen time period for the given API.

Author: ```suggestion
Failed Requests:: The sum of failed requests in the selected time period for the given API.
```

> The charts on the *Overview* dashboard are defined as follows:

Reviewer: active? Like The following charts appear on the ....

Author: ```suggestion
The following charts appear on the *Overview* dashboard:
```

> Request Volume:: The sum of requests in the chosen time period for the given API.

Reviewer: chosen > selected?

Author: ```suggestion
Request Volume:: The sum of requests in the selected time period for the given API.
```

> Policy Violations:: The sum of requests for policy violations in the chosen time period, grouped by policy violation ID.

Author: ```suggestion
Policy Violations:: The sum of requests for policy violations in the selected time period, grouped by policy violation ID.
```

> Average Response Time:: The average response time of requests in the chosen time period for the given API.

Author: ```suggestion
Average Response Time:: The average response time of requests in the selected time period for the given API.
```

[[requests-charts]]
=== Requests Charts

> The charts in the *Requests* dashboard are defined as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
The following charts appear on the *Requests* dashboard:
```

> Requests:: The sum of requests in the chosen time period, grouped by the top 100 paths.

Author: ```suggestion
Requests:: The sum of requests in the selected time period, grouped by the top 100 paths.
```

> Requests by Method:: The sum of requests in the chosen time period, grouped by method.

Author: ```suggestion
Requests by Method:: The sum of requests in the selected time period, grouped by method.
```

> Requests by Response Code:: The sum of requests in the chosen time period, grouped by response code.

Author: ```suggestion
Requests by Response Code:: The sum of requests in the selected time period, grouped by response code.
```

> Requests by Request Size:: The sum of requests in the chosen time period, grouped by request size.+

Author: ```suggestion
Requests by Request Size:: The sum of requests in the selected time period, grouped by request size.+
```

> Requests by Response Size:: The sum of requests in the chosen time period, grouped by response size.+

Author: ```suggestion
Requests by Response Size:: The sum of requests in the selected time period, grouped by response size.+
```

The charts in the *Policies* dashboard are defined as follows:

> Requests:: The sum of requests of policy violations in the chosen time period, grouped by top N paths.

Author: ```suggestion
Requests:: The sum of requests of policy violations in the chosen time period, grouped by top 100 paths.
```

> The charts in the *Policies* dashboard are defined as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
The following charts appear on the *Policies* dashboard:
```

> // should N be 100? or is this undecided?

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Requests:: The sum of requests of policy violations in the chosen time period, grouped by top 100 paths.

Author: ```suggestion
Requests:: The sum of requests of policy violations in the selected time period, grouped by top 100 paths.
```

> Policy Violations by Outcome:: The sum of requests of policy violations in the chosen time period, grouped by outcome.

Author: ```suggestion
Policy Violations by Outcome:: The sum of requests of policy violations in the selected time period, grouped by outcome.
```

> Policy Violations by Violation ID:: The sum of requests of policy violations in the chosen time period, grouped by policy violation ID.

Author: ```suggestion
Policy Violations by Violation ID:: The sum of requests of policy violations in the selected time period, grouped by policy violation ID.
```

[[failures-charts]]
=== Failures Charts

> The charts in the *Failures* dashboard are defined as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
The following charts appear on the *Failures* dashboard:
```

> Failures:: The sum of failed requests in the chosen time period, grouped by the top 100 paths.

Author: ```suggestion
Failures:: The sum of failed requests in the selected time period, grouped by the top 100 paths.
```

> Failures by Method:: The sum of failed requests in the chosen time period, grouped by method.

Author: ```suggestion
Failures by Method:: The sum of failed requests in the selected time period, grouped by method.
```

> Requests by Response Code:: The sum of failed requests in the chosen time period, grouped by response code.

Author: ```suggestion
Requests by Response Code:: The sum of failed requests in the selected time period, grouped by response code.
```

> Requests by Request Size:: The sum of failed requests in the chosen time period, grouped by request size.

Author: ```suggestion
Requests by Request Size:: The sum of failed requests in the selected time period, grouped by request size.
```

> Requests by Response Size:: The sum of failed requests in the chosen time period, grouped by response size

Author: ```suggestion
Requests by Response Size:: The sum of failed requests in the selected time period, grouped by response size
```

[[performance-charts]]
=== Performance Charts

> The charts in the *Performance* dashboard are defined as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
The following charts appear on the *Performance*:
```

Requests by Performance (line chart):: The average response times to requests, grouped by path.

> Requests by Performance (table):: The average response times to requests, grouped by path.

Author: ```suggestion
Requests by Performance (table):: The average request response times, grouped by path.
```

> Requests by Performance (line chart):: The average response times to requests, grouped by path.

Reviewer: The average request response time...?

Author: ```suggestion
Requests by Performance (line chart):: The average request response times, grouped by path.
```

Slow Requests:: The average response times that are greater than 1 second, grouped by path. This chart is available only for Titanium users.

[[client-applications-charts]]
=== Client Applications Charts

> The charts in the *Client Applications* dashboard are defined as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
The following charts appear on the *Client Applications* dashboards:
```

> Slow Requests:: The average response times that are greater than 1 second, grouped by path. This chart is available only for Titanium users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Slow Requests:: The average response times that are greater than one second, grouped by path. This chart is available only for Titanium users.
```

Requests by Client ID:: The sum of requests in the period, grouped by client ID.

> Requests by Client IP:: The sum of requests in the period, grouped by client IP.

Reviewer: IP address?

Author: ```suggestion
Requests by Client IP:: The sum of requests in the period, grouped by client IP address.
```

+
You can click the *View API in API Manager* link to view API analytics in API Manager.

== New Metrics View for API Analytics Dashboards

API analytics dashboards include various pages to view different types of charts:

[%header,cols="1,4"]
|===
| API Analytics Dashboards | Charts

| *Overview* a|

* Request Volume
* Failed Requests
* Policy Violations
* Average Response Time

| *Requests* a|

* Requests
* Requests by Method
* Requests by Response Code
* Requests by Request Size
* Requests by Response Size

| *Policies* a|

* Requests
* Policy Violations by Outcome
* Policy Violations by Violation ID

| *Failures* a|

* Failures
* Failures by Method
* Requests by Response Code
* Requests by Request Size
* Requests by Response Size

| *Performance* a|

* Requests by Performance (line chart)
* Requests by Performance (table)
* Slow Requests (requires Titanium)

| *Client Applications* a|

* Requests by Client ID
* Requests by Client IP

> * Requests by Country

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * Requests by State/Province

Reviewer 3: Remove this

> * Requests by State/Province

Author: ```suggestion
```

Request Volume:: The sum of requests in the chosen time period for the given API.

Failed Requests:: The sum of failed requests in the chosen time period for the given API.

Policy Violations:: The sum of requests for policy violations in the chosen time period, grouped by policy violation ID.

Average Response Time:: The average response time of requests in the chosen time period for the given API.

=== Requests Charts

The charts in the *Requests* dashboard are defined as follows:

Requests:: The sum of requests in the chosen time period, grouped by the top 100 paths.

Requests by Method:: The sum of requests in the chosen time period, grouped by method.

Requests by Response Code:: The sum of requests in the chosen time period, grouped by response code.

Requests by Request Size:: The sum of requests in the chosen time period, grouped by request size.+

Requests by Response Size:: The sum of requests in the chosen time period, grouped by response size.+

=== Policies Charts

The charts in the *Policies* dashboard are defined as follows:

Requests:: The sum of requests of policy violations in the chosen time period, grouped by top N paths.

> // should N be 100? or is this undecided?

Author: @pgaliana Please advise on this?

Reviewer 3: Default value for N is 100.
The value is configurable using the following property:
anypoint.platform.config.analytics.agent.api_metrics.path.sampling_size
